Educational resources
=====================

# Books Available Online For Free

## "The Small-C Handbook"

By James E. Hendrix
1984, Reston Pub. Co.

This is a concise and comprehensive
guide to the Small C programming
language, which is a simplified subset
of the more complex C language. The book
serves as an instructional manual,
providing readers with a thorough
introduction to the fundamentals of
Small C, including its syntax, data
types, operators, control structures,
and the overall programming environment.
It is tailored for beginners and those
new to programming, offering clear
explanations and example codes to help
readers understand how to write
efficient Small C programs.

Additionally, the book discusses the
compilation process and provides
insights into the practical applications
of programming in Small C, making it a
valuable resource for students and
novice programmers looking to gain a
solid foundation in this programming
language.

## "A Small C Compiler" (2nd edition)

By James E. Hendrix
1991, M & T Books, 2. ed.

This is a comprehensive guide aimed at
those interested in understanding and
constructing compilers for the C
programming language. The book offers a
detailed exploration of compiler theory
and operation, making it suitable for
both self-study and academic purposes.
It presents the C language in a
structured manner, demonstrating how to
build a compiler for a subset of C.
This resource is particularly noted for
its practical approach, including full
source code, which enables readers to
modify and enhance the compiler
according to their needs.
