TUNIX Contribution Guidelines
=============================

Welcome to the TUNIX project!  We're
thrilled that you're interested in
contributing to our effort to bring
Unix-like capabilities to the Commodore
VIC-20.  This document outlines our
guidelines for contributing to the TUNIX
project.  By participating in this
project, you agree to abide by its
terms.

# How to Contribute

Get Familiar with the Project: Start by
reading the documentation, understanding
the project's goals, and setting up the
development environment on your own
machine.  Familiarize yourself with the
architecture of TUNIX and the Commodore
VIC-20's capabilities.

Communicate: Before starting work on a
significant change, it's important to
check the project's issue tracker and
mailing lists to see if someone else is
already working on it.  If you're
interested in working on a particular
issue, announce your intentions on the
project's communication channels to
avoid duplicating effort.

Use the Issue Tracker: Use the project's
issue tracker to report bugs, suggest
features, or discuss changes before
implementing them.  This is a great way
to get feedback and ensure that your
contribution aligns with the project's
goals.

Follow the Coding Standards: Ensure your
code adheres to the existing coding
conventions and quality standards used
in the project.  This includes using
meaningful variable names, commenting
your code where necessary, and following
the project's code formatting
guidelines.

Submit a Pull Request: Once you're ready
to share your contribution, submit a
pull request (PR) against the project's
main repository.  Your PR should include
a clear description of the changes and
any relevant issue numbers.  Expect to
engage in a review process,
incorporating feedback from project
maintainers.

# Code of Conduct

We are committed to making
participation in this project a
harassment-free experience for everyone,
regardless of background, body size,
disability, ethnicity, sex
characteristics, gender identity and
expression, level of experience,
education, socio-economic status,
nationality, personal appearance, race,
religion, or sexual identity and
orientation.

In short, our community prioritizes
kindness and respect in all
interactions. By contributing, you agree
to respect all members of the project's
community. Harassment, trolling, public
or private hostility, and other forms
of unprofessional behavior are
unacceptable and may result in temporary
or permanent banishment from the
community.

# How to Report Issues

If you encounter any unacceptable
behavior, please report it to the
project maintainers via email.
All complaints will be reviewed and
investigated promptly and fairly.

# Recognition of Contributions

We value your contributions, and you
should be credited for your work.  We
aim to highlight contributors in our
release notes and project documentation.
If you have any specific concerns about
recognition, please let us know.

# Questions?

If you have any questions about
contributing to TUNIX, please feel free
to reach out via our mailing list or
directly to a project maintainer.  We're
more than happy to help!
